Friends here our concept is exit status of a command C.
Each Linux command returns a status when it is executed.
Status means number, integer number,
and you will get that status as 0 if your command was executed successfully.
And non-zero if your command was executed with another or if your command was failed.
And you can see what is the exit status of your command by using a question mark.
Now let me show you that on your command line.
Same thing. We can also use inward shell scripts as well.
Suppose I am running ls command,
and by observing this output,
we can say that ls command was executed successfully.
And same thing, you can conform from
this value if I simply display echo dollar question mark.
Now see the result we are getting 00 means before this command.
Actually this command output is 0.
Before this, whatever the command we excluded, that was success.
What is the before the command ls,
ls was excluded successfully.
Now let me run some invalid thing.
And if I run that you are getting another same thing I can
confirm by running a chordal question mark.
And now if I get non-zero,
then I can say that previously executed command was failed.
So if this output is non-zero,
previously exerted commandment, this one, not this one.
Be clear immediately before this.
What is the command?
This one.
So if this value is non-zero,
previously executed command was failed, that's it.
And you can store this exit status of a command into a variable simply in this way.
First, let me run some command Anyway,
this is invalid command.
You will get an error code.
As I mean, exit status has non-zero.
Now let me capture that India variable.
Simply write x equals $2 question mark,
or let me write variable names,
suitable variable name command,
return code equals two. Well question mark.
Now after running this command,
we are storing the value into the variable.
That means whatever the value you are having in this variable,
that is the exit status of this command,
exit status soft previously executed a command, that's it.
Now let me display value inside of your command,
written core one to seven.
That means, what is the value in this from this from dollar question mark.
So before this doll question mark or before this line, what is the command?
We executed this one.
So this was phase.
It is very, very important.
Fine.
Now, let me give one more example, very useful one.
Suppose I have a file called demo 2.txt.
And in this I am trying to such for let's say name.
Anyway it is there.
And after running that command,
just look for dollar question mark, what is the result?
Now, I'm searching for suppose Narendra,
Now see the echo dollar question mark non-zero.
So after running this command, immediately,
I'm running a chordal question mark means you are getting some general value,
means the previously executed command,
whatever it may be,
that is success, such as means you actually, you are looking for name.
That name is there in these without seeing here,
without seeing in the output.
Immediately after running this command,
if you run a chordal question mark and if it is 0,
then you can say that you are searching thing is there in the file.
And after running this line immediately, I mean,
after running this command immediately,
I'm looking for echo dollar question mark,
then what is the value 11 means before this line?
What are the commands you are executing that was failed.
Failure means actually we are looking for Narendra,
not in rise, not there in the file.
That is the meaning of exit status of a command.
If your command was success,
then exit status is 0.
If your command was failed,
then exit status is non-zero.
So actually non-zero, it maybe one-to-two fifty-five, any number.
Let me do some of them.
One to seven command not found.
Suppose invalid command, run
the echo dollar question mark and see the result one to seven come and was not there.
One command fail during execution.
Actually our command is valid one,
but while executing we are getting an error.
Let me it is see,
suppose there is a file called this one.
I'm praying to read that.
Actually, you don't have permissions to read that file.
That's the reason you are getting an error and see the result.
You are going to get a URL question mark value as
11 means your command was there, valid command.
But while executing, you are getting an exception and error enemy that was failed.
Under two means, incorrect command Uses.
Suppose ls is a valid command,
even LSI fund LRT is a valid command.
And now if I run ls siphon XYZ,
that is not a valid option for your LS command and see the result what you are getting,
22 means you are command uses is invalid or incorrect command usage. That's it.
So we will see different types of
command exit status while working with some scripts. Okay, thank you.